The Joe Rogan experience.
What is it about that feeling of discomfort that brings you
joy or what that, that you enjoy giving to,
to people that are reading your stuff? Is it just that
you don't like the cliche
sloppy endings,
the way where everything is gonna be fine and everything's great.
And the world is different in literature than it is in real life.
Like, what is it about these moments?
Like these moments of darkness where you do break everybody's heart?
Why do you enjoy them so much?
I enjoy them because they prove, but I'm not the only one. Ah,
I'm not the only one that's had these moments of complete humiliation
or complete powerlessness. Um,
one story I've always loved is my best friend in college. Hi,
his father was this mining professor in this very super macho guy and my best
and Fran was like the son that just wasn't turning outright.
And in their household, they had a bunch of kids, girls, and boys.
And one day Fran's dad had all of his,
his beer drinking football buds over to watch the super bowl.
And Fran found this old doll that had been around the house for, for decades.
It was called sissy and it barely had a hair left on its little doll head.
And Fran sat there as maybe a five or six year old little boy.
And he very carefully untangled Sissy's hair and he backcombed it.
And he teased it and he dressed it into a big B font and even got one of his
mother's broaches.
And he put that broach through the front of this beehive hair to hold it in
place. Very Marie Antoinette.
And he was so proud that he turned this really decrepit
ugly thing into something passively pretty.
He had sort of redeemed it and then he took it to his father in front of all of
his father's friends in the super bowl. And he said, daddy, daddy, look,
I made sissy pretty.
And his father was so humiliated that he beat Fran right there
in front of their whole peer group.
He just beat Fran.
And the story is so painful,
but everybody's had a pain like that. Everybody has done that,
that thing out of innocence and expression that for whatever reason,
gots you slammed and nobody talks about it.
Nobody talks about it because it's so painful.
And because everyone thinks they're the only one.
And so if I can take some of those stories and bring them to light,
it creates this opening for everyone to say, oh my God,
I once did this thing. And my parents reacted badly to it,
or it destroyed my life and I've never been the same. Uh,
and when Fran told me that story, he was almost weeping,
but he was laughing as he was telling the story because he had to keep laughing
in order to keep telling the story. And that's what I'm always shooting for.
Those are the moments like tho those kind of,
of stories are the ones that hit people the hardest,
because you know that the child has no idea that what they're doing is going to
be uncomfortable for anybody. Like they have real pride in it, like, uh,
here as a parallel, as a story that you told before, uh,
I guess three years ago,
when you were talking about the writing workshop that you had done with, uh,
you were talking about someone else's story about how they were
jacking off in a jacuzzi and their anus got prolapsed.
And this woman in the writing workshop
felt comfortable enough because you told that story to tell her story
about being, uh, in the girl Scouts or the brownies,
the brownies before the girl scout, the heating pad story pad story. Yeah.
Where she had put this vibrating heating pad on her vagina and had her friends
do the same thing. And the mom came home and she was only seven years old.
She thought it was cool. Like, look, I found this thing.
And then the mom beat her with the wire that was plugged
wall and called her a dirty. And she never orgasmed again.
And she said in summation that if I could tell
this story that I had just told it was so, so,
uh self-pacing and so humiliating,
but also make it funny then that would,
that gave her her proof that she could make her own story funny.
And that maybe she could someday go back to her mother and say,
remember that heating pad and that maybe ultimately she could have an orgasm
because until you can kind of reveal these things and, and resolve them,
they run the rest of your life and you're never gonna get beyond them.
Yeah. Especially when you don't see it coming when you're just a child and then
you do something that you think is totally fine.
And all of a sudden you're getting the beaten out of you.
And you don't understand why all you did is make a doll pretty like what
happened.
Well, and it it's, it occurs in so many different ways. Uh,
several years ago I got a job house sitting a farm that was famous for being
haunted and had all these paranormal studies.
So as soon as the owners were gone, I invited a bunch of psychics out to do a,
a seance. You know, I wanted to know,
and my father had been murdered about five years before that.
<affirmative> and one of these psychic women that I'd never met before
said there was a man standing with you,
he's wearing a white t-shirt and he he's holding something wooden.
And he is really, really sorry. He did what he did, but he was in a very,
very young man at the time, he was only 23 or 24. He's holding something wooden.
And he's about to dismember you. Does that make any sense whatsoever?
And I just kind of noded my head. And I said,
I have no idea what you're talking about, but when I was,
was maybe three or four years old,
my mother had taken my siblings into town and I was, you know,
in our rural farm. And I put a, a,
a fender washer around one of my fingers and I couldn't get it off.
And so I waited until a finger was swollen up and turning sort of purple black.
I went to my father and I said, can you help me with this washer thing?
And my father had said, I can help you,
but I want you to learn lesson that you have to,
there are consequences to everything you do,
and I will help you with a washer.
If you accept responsibility for your actions for the rest of your life.
And he took me and we had to wash the ax that we kill chickens with.
We had this hatchet and he took me and we sharpened the hatchet and we washed it
really thoroughly. So there were no germs on it.
And then he had me kneel down by the chopping block and put my hand on the
chopping block. And at the time there was no, oh, drama.
It was just complete clarity.
My father was helping me to resolve this situation. And at the last moment,
he missed my hand with the ax. The AXS went into the chopping block,
and then we went inside and used, uh, dish soap to take the washer off.
And I knew that story would just make my mother insane.
So I never told anybody my entire life, that story watch the.
Entire episode for free, only on Spotify.